.de URL
\\$2 \(laURL: \\$1 \(ra\\$3
..
.if \n[.g] .mso www.tmac
.TH REDO-STAMP 1
.SH NAME
redo-stamp \- rebuild target files depending on data given on standard input
.SH SYNOPSIS
.RI [command]
|
.B redo-stamp
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IR redo(1)
is a tool for building files and for rebuilding them if any of their dependencies have changed.
.IR redo-stamp ,
when invoked from a dofile, adds a dependency of the current
.IR redo(1)
target on the data given on standard input. If the data given on standard input to
.IR redo-stamp
has not changed since the last build, the current
.IR redo(1)
target is not rebuilt and marked as up to date. To ensure that
.IR redo-stamp
checks the current target's validity, one can use
.IR redo-always(1)
to mark the current target as always out of date.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Consider the following two files
.IR all.do
and
.IR b.do :
.TP
.I all.do
.br
#!/bin/sh
.br
redo-ifchange b
.TP
.I b.do
.br
#!/bin/sh
.br
redo-always
.br
echo 'input a line of text:' >&2
.br
line | redo-stamp
.br
date +%s
.PP
Invoking
.IR redo(1)
in a directory with these files will build a file named
.I b
containing a timestamp. The next time
.IR redo(1)
is invoked, it will only rebuild
.I b
if the output of
.IR line(1)
changed since the last build. This can be verified by invoking 
.IR redo(1)
repeatedly and examining the timestamp
.IR b
after each invocation, then changing the input to
.IR line(1) ,
invoking
.IR redo(1)
again and examining the timestamp again.
.SH HISTORY
.I redo-stamp
was designed by Avery Pennarun and implemented by Nils Dagsson Moskopp.
.SH AUTHOR
.I redo-stamp
and this man page were written by Nils Dagsson Moskopp.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2014-2017 Nils Dagsson Moskopp.
License AGPLv3+: GNU Affero GPL version 3 or later <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl-3.0.html>.
This is free software: you are free to create and redistribute it. There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR redo(1) ,
.IR redo-always(1) ,
.IR redo-dot(1) ,
.IR redo-ifchange(1) ,
.IR redo-ifcreate(1) ,
.IR redo-ood(1) ,
.IR redo-sources(1) ,
.IR redo-targets(1)
.SH BUGS
None so far.
