.de URL
\\$2 \(laURL: \\$1 \(ra\\$3
..
.if \n[.g] .mso www.tmac
.TH REDO-IFCREATE 1
.SH NAME
redo-ifcreate \- rebuild target files when source files are created
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B redo-ifcreate
.I target
.RI [ target ]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IR redo(1)
is a tool for building files and for rebuilding them if any of their dependencies have changed.
.IR redo-ifcreate ,
when invoked from a dofile, adds non-existence dependencies of the current
.IR redo(1)
target on all files given as arguments. This means that the current target will be rebuilt on invocation of
.IR redo(1)
if any of the files given as arguments to
.IR redo-ifcreate
exist. If an argument to
.IR redo-ifcreate
exists, it exits with a status code indicating failure.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Consider the following two files
.IR all.do
and
.IR b.do :
.TP
.I all.do
.br
#!/bin/sh
.br
redo-ifchange b
.TP
.I b.do
.br
#!/bin/sh
.br
if [ ! -e c ]; then
.br
 redo-ifcreate c
.br
fi
.br
date +%s
.PP
Invoking
.IR redo(1)
in a directory with these files that does not contain a file named
.I c
will build a file named
.I b
containing a timestamp. The next time
.IR redo(1)
is invoked, it will only rebuild
.I b
if a file named
.I c
was created since the last build. This can be verified by invoking 
.IR redo(1)
repeatedly and examining the timestamp
.IR b
after each invocation, then creating a file named
.IR c ,
invoking
.IR redo(1)
again and examining the timestamp again.
.SH HISTORY
.I redo-ifcreate
was designed by D. J. Bernstein and implemented by Nils Dagsson Moskopp.
.TP
.URL https://cr.yp.to/redo/honest-nonfile.html "Target files depend on nonexistent files" " by D. J. Bernstein"
.SH AUTHOR
.I redo-ifcreate
and this man page were written by Nils Dagsson Moskopp.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2014-2016 Nils Dagsson Moskopp.
License AGPLv3+: GNU Affero GPL version 3 or later <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl-3.0.html>.
This is free software: you are free to create and redistribute it. There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR redo(1) ,
.IR redo-always(1) ,
.IR redo-dot(1) ,
.IR redo-ifchange(1) ,
.IR redo-ood(1) ,
.IR redo-sources(1) ,
.IR redo-stamp(1) ,
.IR redo-targets(1)
.SH BUGS
.I redo-ifcreate
may break if a source filename contains a tab or newline character.
