.de URL
\\$2 \(laURL: \\$1 \(ra\\$3
..
.if \n[.g] .mso www.tmac
.TH REDO-ALWAYS 1
.SH NAME
redo-always \- mark the current
.I redo
target as always needing to be rebuilt
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B redo-always
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IR redo(1)
is a tool for building files and for rebuilding them if any of their dependencies have changed.
.IR redo-always ,
when invoked from a dofile, adds a dependency on the current target that is impossible to satisfy. The target will always be rebuilt if given as an argument to
.IR redo-ifchange(1) .
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Consider the following three dofiles
.IR all.do ,
.IR b.do
and
.IR c.do :
.TP
.I all.do
.br
#!/bin/sh
.br
redo-ifchange b
.TP
.I b.do
.br
#!/bin/sh
.br
redo-ifchange c
.br
sleep 1
.br
date +%s
.TP
.I c.do
.br
#!/bin/sh
.br
redo-always
.br
date +%s
.PP
Invoking
.IR redo(1)
in a directory with these three files will build a file named
.I c
containing a timestamp and a file named
.I b
containing a timestamp that is at least one second later. Both
.I b
and
.I c
will always be rebuilt when
.IR redo(1)
is invoked, as the default target
.I all
depends on
.I b
which in turn depends on
.I c
which has an impossible to satisfy dependency.
.SH HISTORY
.I redo-always
was designed by Avery Pennarun as part of his
.I redo
implementation and implemented by Nils Dagsson Moskopp.
.SH AUTHOR
.I redo-always
and this man page were written by Nils Dagsson Moskopp.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2014-2016 Nils Dagsson Moskopp.
License AGPLv3+: GNU Affero GPL version 3 or later <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl-3.0.html>.
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it. There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR redo(1) ,
.IR redo-dot(1) ,
.IR redo-ifchange(1) ,
.IR redo-ifcreate(1) ,
.IR redo-ood(1) ,
.IR redo-sources(1) ,
.IR redo-stamp(1) ,
.IR redo-targets(1)
.SH BUGS
.I redo-always
may break if the target filename contains a tab or a newline.
