.de URL
\\$2 \(laURL: \\$1 \(ra\\$3
..
.if \n[.g] .mso www.tmac
.TH REDO 1
.SH NAME
redo \- rebuild target files when source files have changed
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B redo
.RB [ option ]
.RI [ target ]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I redo
is a tool for building files and for rebuilding them if any of their dependencies have changed. The build rules are contained in files with the extension .do that are called dofiles. Usually, dofiles are shell scripts executed by
.IR sh(1) .
.PP
.I redo
uses a simple algorithm to find dofiles: First it looks for the filename of the target with the suffix
.IR .do ,
then it looks for filenames consisting of
.I default
plus the target's filename extension plus
.IR .do ,
recursively removing the last component of the target's filename extension.
.PP
For example, if
.I redo
is asked to build a file called
.B
.IR example.x.y.z ,
it will look for dofiles with the following filenames to build the file:
.RS
.PP
example.x.y.z.do
.PP
default.x.y.z.do
.PP
default.y.z.do
.PP
default.z.do
.PP
default.do
.RE
.PP
.I redo
considers the first existing file found this way the dofile for the target and executes it. If
.I redo
is not given a target, it builds a target named
.IR all .
If
.I redo
can not find a dofile for a target, it exits with a status code indicating failure.
.PP
.I redo
passes three arguments to a dofile that is executed:
.TP
.B $1
is the name of the target.
.TP
.B $2
is the basename of the target, i.e. the name of the target minus leading directory components and extensions. Note that the extension is determined from the dofile: A file
.I
example.a.b.c
that is built with a dofile
.I default.b.c.do
will be considered to have the extension
.IR b.c ,
so
.B $2
will be set to
.IR example.a .
.TP
.B $3
is the name of a temporary file which replaces the target atomically after the dofile has exited successfully. Instead of writing to
.BR $3 ,
a dofile can also write to standard output.
.PP
If the current target should be rebuilt if other files change, this can be declared with
.IR redo-ifchange(1) :
When
.IR redo-ifchange(1)
is executed from a dofile,
.I redo
builds the targets given to
.IR redo-ifchange(1)
and will rebuild the current target on the next invocation of
.I redo
if any of the targets given to
.IR redo-ifchange(1)
have changed since the last build.
.PP
If the current target should be rebuilt if a file that does not exist at the time of the build exists, this can be declared with
.IR redo-ifcreate(1) :
When
.IR redo-ifcreate(1)
is executed from a dofile,
.I redo
will rebuild the current target on the next invocation of
.I redo
if any of the targets given to
.IR redo-ifcreate(1)
exist.
.PP
If the current target should be rebuilt if the output of a command changes, this can be declared with
.IR redo-stamp(1) :
When
.IR redo-stamp(1)
is executed from a dofile and given data on standard input,
.I redo
will rebuild the current target on the next invocation of
.I redo
if the the output of the command that piped data to it changes.
.PP
If the current target should always be rebuilt, this can be declared with
.IR redo-always(1) :
When
.IR redo-always(1)
is executed from a dofile,
.I redo
will rebuild the current target on the next invocation of
.IR redo .
.SH OPTIONS
If the
.B -d
or
.B --debug
option is given,
.I redo
prints information about all dependency checks.
.PP
If the
.B -h
or
.B --help
option is given,
.I redo
prints a short notice about its command line options.
.PP
If the
.B -j
or
.B --jobs
option is given followed by an integer, an invocation of
.I redo(1)
or
.I redo-ifchange(1)
with multiple arguments builds targets in parallel. The integer argument specifies the maximum number of targets allowed to be built in parallel. Targets are locked, so if targets built in parallel share a dependency,
.I redo(1)
only builds it once, unless the dependency dofile uses
.I redo-always(1)
to rebuild every time,
or the dependency becomes out of date during a build in some other way.
.PP
If the
.B --version
option is given,
.I redo
prints version information and exits.
.PP
If the
.B -x
or
.B --xtrace
option is given,
.I redo
prints commands inside dofiles as they are executed.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B redo
makes
.I redo
search for a dofile called
.BR all.do ,
which it executes to build the target
.BR all .
Usually, executing
.B all.do
will yield no output on standard output and
.I redo
will not create a file called
.BR all .
.TP
.B redo example.x.y.z
makes
.I redo
search for dofiles called
.BR example.x.y.z.do ,
.BR default.x.y.z.do ,
.BR default.x.y.do ,
.BR default.x.do ,
.BR default.do .
.I redo
executes the first file that exists to build
.BR example.x.y.z .
.SH HISTORY
.I redo
was designed by D. J. Bernstein and implemented multiple times by Alan Grosskurth, Avery Pennarun, Jonathan de Boyne Pollard and Nils Dagsson Moskopp.
.TP
.URL http://cr.yp.to/redo.html "Rebuilding target files when source files have changed" " by D. J. Bernstein"
.TP
.URL http://grosskurth.ca/papers/mmath-thesis.pdf "Purely top-down software rebuilding" " by Alan Grosskurth"
.TP
.URL https://github.com/apenwarr/redo#readme "redo: a top-down software build system" " by Avery Pennarun"
.TP
.URL http://homepage.ntlworld.com/jonathan.deboynepollard/FGA/introduction-to-redo.html "Introduction to redo" " by Jonathan de Boyne Pollard"
.TP
.URL http://news.dieweltistgarnichtso.net/bin/redo-sh.html "Redo implementation in Bourne Shell" " by Nils Dagsson Moskopp"
.SH AUTHOR
.I redo
and this man page were written by Nils Dagsson Moskopp.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2014-2016 Nils Dagsson Moskopp.
License AGPLv3+: GNU Affero GPL version 3 or later <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl-3.0.html>.
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it. There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR redo-always(1) ,
.IR redo-ifchange(1) ,
.IR redo-ifcreate(1) ,
.IR redo-ood(1) ,
.IR redo-sources(1) ,
.IR redo-stamp(1) ,
.IR redo-targets(1)
.SH BUGS
This implementation of
.I redo
may break if the target filename contains a tab or newline.
