.de URL
\\$2 \(laURL: \\$1 \(ra\\$3
..
.if \n[.g] .mso www.tmac
.TH REDO-SOURCES 1
.SH NAME
redo-sources \- print list of
.IR redo(1)
sources
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B redo-sources
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IR redo(1)
is a tool for building files and for rebuilding them if any of their dependencies have changed.
.I redo-sources
prints the list of
.IR redo(1)
sources in the current directory and its subdirectories that exist. A source is a file that has been listed as a dependency of another file using
.IR redo-ifchange(1)
but can not be built with
.IR redo(1) .
.PP
Files that do not exist are not listed because they might not be sources anymore. For example, if you declare a dependency on a file using
.IR redo-ifchange(1)
and later remove the file and create a dofile to generate it, it will not be listed.
.SH HISTORY
.I redo-sources
was designed by Avery Pennarun as part of his
.I redo
implementation and implemented by Nils Dagsson Moskopp.
.SH AUTHOR
.I redo-sources
and this man page were written by Nils Dagsson Moskopp.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2014-2016 Nils Dagsson Moskopp.
License AGPLv3+: GNU Affero GPL version 3 or later <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl-3.0.html>.
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it. There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR redo(1) ,
.IR redo-always(1) ,
.IR redo-dot(1) ,
.IR redo-ifchange(1) ,
.IR redo-ifcreate(1) ,
.IR redo-ood(1) ,
.IR redo-stamp(1) ,
.IR redo-targets(1)
.SH BUGS
.I redo-sources
may break if the target filename contains a tab or a newline.
